[Secrets Mgmt] overview & how-to refresh (#2678)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/secrets/secrets-overview.md

description: "Overview of secrets management API building block"
---

> ## Secrets management pattern

Reviewer: Let's not use "pattern".  This has not been used in the other overview. Unfortunately we are still inconsistent between all the overviews section. I suggest removing this heading completely.
I also suggest removing the same heading in the https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/building-blocks/service-invocation/service-invocation-overview/#introduction and https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/building-blocks/pubsub/pubsub-overview/#publish-and-subscribe-pattern. What are your thoughts?

Author: I agree - removing that first header!

> Applications usually store sensitive information in secrets by using a dedicated secret store. For example, you authenticate databases, services, and external systems with connection strings, keys, tokens, and other application-level secrets stored in a secret store, such as [Azure Key Vault, Hashicorp Vault, etc]({{< ref supported-secret-stores >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications usually store sensitive information in secrets by using a dedicated secret store. For example, you authenticate databases, services, and external systems with connection strings, keys, tokens, and other application-level secrets stored in a secret store for example [AWS Secrets Manager, Kubernetes secrets, Azure Key Vault, Hashicorp Vault]({{< ref supported-secret-stores >}}).
```

> Applications usually store sensitive information in secrets by using a dedicated secret store. For example, you authenticate databases, services, and external systems with connection strings, keys, tokens, and other application-level secrets stored in a secret store, such as [Azure Key Vault, Hashicorp Vault, etc]({{< ref supported-secret-stores >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications usually store sensitive information in secrets by using a dedicated secret store. For example, you authenticate databases, services, and external systems with connection strings, keys, tokens, and other application-level secrets stored in a secret store, such as [AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, Hashicorp Vault, etc]({{< ref supported-secret-stores >}}).
```

To access these secret stores, the application imports the secret store SDK, often requiring a fair amount of unrelated boilerplate code. This poses an even greater challenge in multi-cloud scenarios, where different vendor-specific secret stores may be used.

> ## Secrets management API in Dapr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Secrets management API
```

Dapr's dedicated secrets building block API makes it easier for developers to consume application secrets from a secret store. To use Dapr's secret store building block, you:

1. Set up a component for a specific secret store solution.
1. Retrieve secrets using the Dapr secrets API in the application code.
1. Optionally, reference secrets in Dapr component files.

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> By default, Dapr enables a built-in [Kubernetes secret store in Kubernetes mode]({{< ref "kubernetes-secret-store.md" >}}), deployed via:

Reviewer: I would move this note on talking about K8s secrets to be part of K8s secrets section in the Features topic after this sentence "Applications can also use the secrets API to access secrets from a Kubernetes secret store."

- The Helm defaults, or
- `dapr init -k`

If you are using another secret store, you can disable (not configure) the Dapr Kubernetes secret store by setting `disable-builtin-k8s-secret-store` to `true` through the Helm settings. The default is `false`.
{{% /alert %}}

> ## Dapr secrets management API features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features
```

> The secrets management building block brings several features to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secrets management API building block brings several features to your application.
```

### Configure secrets without changing application code

> You can call the secrets API in your application code to retrieve and use secrets from Dapr supported secret stores. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtbYCBt9C34&t=1818) for an example of how the secrets API can be used in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call the secrets API in your application code to retrieve and use secrets from Dapr supported secret stores. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtbYCBt9C34&t=1818) for an example of how the secrets management API can be used in your application.
```

For example, the diagram below shows an application requesting the secret called "mysecret" from a secret store called "vault" from a configured cloud secret store.

<img src="/images/secrets-overview-cloud-stores.png" width=600>

Applications can also use the secrets API to access secrets from a Kubernetes secret store. In the example below, the application retrieves the same secret "mysecret" from a Kubernetes secret store.

<img src="/images/secrets-overview-kubernetes-store.png" width=600>

In Azure, you can configure Dapr to retrieve secrets using managed identities to authenticate with Azure Key Vault. In the example below:

1. An [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks) is configured to use managed identities. 
1. Dapr uses [pod identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/operator-best-practices-identity#use-pod-identities) to retrieve secrets from Azure Key Vault on behalf of the application.

<img src="/images/secrets-overview-azure-aks-keyvault.png" width=600>

> In all of the examples above, the application code did not have to change to get the same secret. Dapr did all the heavy lifting using the secret components via the secrets building block API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the examples above, the application code did not have to change to get the same secret. Dapr uses the secret management components via the secrets management building block API.
```
